OSDOCS-4347: Account Information: installing-aws-localzone created from cloudformation (#54535)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-user-infra-generate-k8s-manifest-ignition.adoc

> ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-aws-user-infra"]

Reviewer: There's not a non-UPI module for this, but now might be the time to make one.

> ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-aws-user-infra"]

Reviewer: I'm making a new one that doesn't mention Ignition configs at all.

----
+
Because you create and manage the worker machines yourself, you do not need to initialize these machines.

> //The current AWS UPI method removes all of the `99_openshift-cluster-api_worker-machineset-* files. What is different about the local zones that means that we should retain them? Should we remove whatever the installation program creates and then specifically create this new file?

Reviewer: I thought that you had to rebuild the Ignition configs when you modified the manifests or that the installer wouldn't apply them.

endif::aws,azure,ash,gcp[]
ifdef::localzone[]

> . Create the machineset for the nodes in your local zone.
> .. Export a variable to define the instance type for your control plane machines by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create the MachineSet manifests for the worker nodes in your Local Zone.
.. Export a variable to define the instance type for the worker machine to deploy on the Local Zone subnet by running the following command:
```

Reviewer: I've updated the step text but retained the styling of "machine set" to match the [repo guidelines on API objects](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#general-references).

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export INSTANCE_TYPE="<instance_type>" <1>
----

> <1> Set `<instance_type>` to a tested instance type, such as `c5d.2xlarge`.

Reviewer 2: If it is possible, we could add a helper command to help the user to check which instances are available on the Local Zone he is deploying (it can change by Local Zone location). For example:

---

To check the available instance types in the Location you are deploying, run the following command - using the location `us-east-1-nyc-1a`:
```
aws ec2 describe-instance-type-offerings \
    --location-type availability-zone \
    --filters Name=location,Values=us-east-1-nyc-1a \
    --region us-east-1
```

.. Store the AMI ID as a local variable by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export AMI_ID=$(grep ami \
  openshift/99_openshift-cluster-api_worker-machineset-0.yaml \
  | tail -n1 | awk '{print$2}')
----

.. Store the AMI ID as a local variable by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export SUBNET_ID=$(aws cloudformation describe-stacks \
  --stack-name "<subnet_stack_name>" \ <1>
  | jq -r .Stacks[0].Outputs[0].OutputValue)
----
<1> For `<subnet_stack_name>`, specify the name of the subnet stack that you created.

.. Create the worker manifest file for the Local Zone that your VPC uses by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF > openshift/99_openshift-cluster-api_worker-machineset-nyc1.yaml
apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1beta1
kind: MachineSet
metadata:
  labels:

>     machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: ${CLUSTER_ID}

Reviewer 2: The [step](https://github.com/mtulio/mtulio.labs/blob/article-ocp-aws-lz/docs/articles/ocp-aws-local-zones-day-0.md#create-the-installer-manifests-) to populate the `${CLUSTER_ID}` wasn't moved. I think it can be the first step of step "Create the machine set manifests for the worker nodes in your Local Zone."

```
export CLUSTER_ID="$(awk '/infrastructureName: / {print $2}' manifests/cluster-infrastructure-02-config.yml)"
```

>   name: ${CLUSTER_ID}-edge-${LZ_ZONE_NAME}

Reviewer 2: The `${LZ_ZONE_NAME}` was not defined here. It should be the same value defined on the parameter `LocalZoneName`of CloudFormation template to create the Local Zone Subnet.

  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: ${CLUSTER_ID}
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: ${CLUSTER_ID}-edge-${LZ_ZONE_NAME}
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: ${CLUSTER_ID}
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-role: edge
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: edge
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: ${CLUSTER_ID}-edge-${LZ_ZONE_NAME}
    spec:
      metadata:
        labels:

>           location: local-zone
>           zone_group: ${LZ_ZONE_NAME::-1}

Reviewer 2: Let's keep it in sync with the standardized [Enhancement](https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/pull/1232/files#diff-f2590494c9138551ab5b3d5632d11170fe8742a128256f9e1d8ebc63baa19f41R531-R532) and [implementation](https://github.com/openshift/installer/pull/6371/files#diff-75b6aa907d64f8fa958f3d4baffa4200d309771e666a121547ede93bca0e1b3dR57-R58):

```suggestion
          zone_type: local-zone
          zone_group: ${LZ_ZONE_NAME::-1}
```

----
+
Because you create and manage the worker machines yourself, you do not need to initialize these machines.

> //The current AWS UPI method removes all of the `99_openshift-cluster-api_worker-machineset-* files. What is different about the Local Zones that means that we should retain them? Should we remove whatever the installation program creates and then specifically create this new file?

Reviewer: Yes. I'm reverting all of the changes that we made to this file in favor of using a new module just to use with this assembly.
